>> Good afternoon and welcome to the Bending
Directory Services Tier well session.
My name is Nicole Jacque and I'm an engineer
with the Enterprise Support Engineering Group.
And what we're going to talk about today is we're
going to start out by talking about Leopard,
because that's why we're all here, right?
We want to hear about Leopard.
Okay, I heard, what?
( Laughter )
( Applause )
Okay, thank you.
And then because Leopard is not
here, not here for a little while,
we're going to talk also about trouble
shooting Directory Services
and in particular trouble shooting the active
directory plug-in so that you have some of the things
that you can take back with you right away, start
using, information that will useful right now.
( Applause )
Another just little bit of administrativia here.
There is a file associated with this session.
If you log into the attendee site, I tried to
make it a little easier for you guys this year.
Instead of having to scribble down notes because
there's some slides that have a lot of content on them,
I've actually put most of the command
line things into a notes file.
I think it's called session notes or release notes
or something like that, associated with this session.
So if you are on a slide and you're trying
to take notes, you can not worry so much.
They should, the content of most of
that should be in this file for you.
( Applause )
So, let's start out talking about Leopard.
The first we need to talk about is we made a lot of
architectural changes to Directory Services in Leopard.
To talk about where we're going, we
have to start with where we've been.
Directory Services has always been this layer in
between your software and the backend plug-ins.
And we've had look up D, which came
to us from NeXT and it handled things
like your lib system calls, it did caching and DNS.
And it, it talked to the local
node which was always NetInfo.
That, hey I heard that.
( Laughter )
Then for OS X, we added the Directory Services daemon.
And this added the ability to talk to things
like LDAP servers and Active Directory.
And finally with Tiger we added member D. And we did this
to get past the 16 group limit that we'd always had coming
from Unix and this handled all of
your group resolution and caching.
So its time to make a little bit of a change here.
So for Leopard, what we've done is we've
brought all three daemons into one big daemon.
It's the directory service daemon and it handles everything
that look up D and member D had handled before along
with all of things that Directory
Services had traditionally handled.
And why did we do this?
Well for one thing, we have one daemon.
We have less IPC dispatch.
We have better performance.
We save a little bit of memory by
going from three processes to one.
And now there's less overlap because each of
the three processes handle things that other
of the processes also handled and now we
just have one process that does everything.
For everything that accesses Directory
Services, you don't need to make any changes
to your applications or anything like that.
They'll call into directory services
the same way they always have.
But for you as administrators, as troubleshooters,
you need to know that where the functionality
of the things that have gone away have gone.
So if you use look up D in Tiger, the main
functionality as I said went into directory service.
But if you used to use look up D to
actually adjust some of the cache values,
we have a new utility called DS cache util.
And also if you used look up D to actually look up
records, things like users or mount records and so on,
you can use DSCL which already exists in Tiger.
For member D, the main functionality
again is in directory service.
But we have a new utility called DS
member until that you use to do things
like resolve UIDs to GUIDs or SIDs and back and forth.
And finally we had our GUI utility, directory
access, which has gotten a face lift.
And a rename.
It's now called Directory Utility.
And it's gone from something that looked like this,
lots of options right there on the, the first screen.
Something a lot similar but simpler.
And right from the first glance, you can tell what
nodes are functioning, what nodes might be disconnected
and then you can always still get to the advanced
settings to set everything that you used to set.
Now as long as we're talking about architectural changes
with Directory Services, we need
to talk about the local node.
Which traditionally has always been NetInfo.
NetInfo has been with us for a long time.
And for Leopard, there is really only
one piece of information about it.
( Applause )
Sound effects, yes.
NetInfo has kicked the bucket.
It has shuffled off this mortal coil.
It has rung down the curtain, joined the choir invisible.
This is an X directory service.
( Applause )
We do need something to perform the tasks
that NetInfo had been doing however.
And that something is we knew DS local node.
If you start out with a fresh Leopard install,
this is what you will get for your local node.
If you do an upgrade install of Leopard,
we will actually pull all of your data
out of NetInfo, put it in a DS local node.
There will be no NetInfo running.
Not for local access, not for network access.
NetInfo is gone.
( Applause )
Now with the disappearance of NetInfo, we
should take a look at what's replacing it.
And so DS local node is a very simple database
that gets rid of a lot of the extra functionality
that was left over from NetInfo
being a network directory service.
We didn't need all of that for a local node.
So its basically just flat file record storage.
If you look inside of it, as a node as its stored in
the file system, its just a series of directories,
each named for the record type that its storing; you
find this directory in VAR DB DS Local Nodes default.
If you were to look inside one of these
directories, you would see a whole lot of files.
Each of these files is an actual record.
And if you look we have some built in user accounts here.
They are all prefixed with an underscore.
And we have the accounts that were
actually set up by you on the system.
And if you can't guess, they're all dot P list.
So they are just P list files.
You get your standard P list header.
And you can see you've got all the various record
attributes that you are accustomed to seeing
with in this case for example a user account.
Nothing has changed about the types
of data that we're storing here.
It's just how we're storing it on the back end.
The good thing about this is that this is all pretty
transparent to you how it's being stored on the back end
and the actual data that's being stored there.
So you can actually, if you think you
might some sort of local node obstruction,
you can just open the file and take a look.
It's also pretty handy in the case where maybe
you make a change that you need to back out of,
but you're already locked out of the system.
Just as an example, lets say you
are playing with service accls
and you accidentally lock yourself
out of the system altogether.
Go to the single user mode, you can remove the service
allc record, reboot, and you're back to normal.
Along with having NetInfo go away, we also have
the various NetInfo utilities that have gone away.
So for all of the NetInfo utilities that
existed, which were the NI something,
there is an equivalent DS something equivalent.
So if you were using NICL or NI Util, you can
use DSCL or DS edit group to edit your records.
If you were using NI Load, you can use DS Import.
If you were using NI Dump, you can use DS Export.
In the file that I associated with this session, I've
actually given you an example of a script written
with the NI utilities and then converted
over to use a DS utilities.
It's not any longer or harder.
You just need to make the change.
If you are using scripts that might use these utilities
or you were using them for your trouble shooting.
There's also one GUI utility for NetInfo
and not surprisingly that's also going away.
There were really three main things
that people used NetInfo manager for.
And so instead of having a new replacement NetInfo manager,
we've just moved that functionality
into the appropriate place.
So the first thing that people used NetInfo manager for was
to edit the advanced settings of user and group accounts.
So it made sense to move that functionality
into the account pane in System Preferences.
So if you right click on a user account, you have access to
edit all the users that you might need access to.
( Applause )
Also hidden, but still there, you can
right click and you can also edit groups.
And one thing that you can do with this is that even though
by default you may see only a list of users that you can add
to a group that are on that machine,
if you choose to add a user or a group,
you can actually add a network user
to the group and it will add them.
It's just adding them to the file.
You just can't browse.
But we're not going to show you all of you know 5
million users you might have in your network node.
The second thing that people use NetInfo
manager for was to create mount records.
And so we've moved that functionality
into the Directory Utility.
If you go into the advanced settings,
we have a tab for mounts.
And you can go ahead, create you
mount records as you need to.
And finally the last reason that people used
NetInfo manager was to enable or disable root.
So that functionality also moved into directory utility.
It's just an item in the edit pull down menu.
There's also a command line utility that you can use.
DS Enable Root.
That actually already exists in Tiger.
It'll still be there in Leopard.
The next thing that we want to talk about is one
of our really popular directory service plug-ins.
The Active Directory plug-in.
How many people here use the Active Directory plug-in?
Wow, forest of arms here.
( Laughter )
I'm sorry.
( Period of silence )
What we've done with the Active Directory
plug-in for Leopard is we are trying
to make our Active Directory client fit in
better with the Active Directory domains,
whether you have large domains and forests.
We're trying to scale up to those.
We're also trying to make our client be able to behave like
the Windows client without having to make special allowances
for it, special settings in active
directory to allow us to work correctly.
So okay.
( Applause )
One of the things that we have also done
is we have added domain and policy caching.
So that your mobile users, how
many people use mobile accounts?
( Period of silence )
Mobile users will not have to sit
and query for this information.
It'll be there.
We'll eliminate some of the delays that
you may have seen with mobile accounts.
( Applause )
And as I said, we're just more
scale, more scalable in general.
We've also added a few new configuration options.
Package signing and encryption is now available.
( Applause )
This is actually in the Leopard
bill that you got here at WWDC.
So you can actually test it today, well you can test
it today if you brought an Active Directory domain to,
did anybody bring an Active Directory domain to test?
I'm disappointed.
( Laughter )
All right.
So, DS config AD, you can enable this
with package and packet encrypt options.
They have three settings, allow, disable or require.
So allow, the server allows it.
Disable it or require it.
And by default, these will be on and set to allow.
( Period of silence )
The second option that we are adding is the ability to
change your computer trust account password periodically.
PCs do this with a group policy.
We're not going to read group policy, we actually will set
an interval on the client using the pass interval option.
But now if you have requirements for example from your
auditors to change your computer trust account password
or you just want to be able to use the password last set
value of your, your computer accounts to tell whether
or not its an old computer account
that's been sitting around for a while,
now you'll be able to do that by setting this on the client.
By default, this may not be enabled.
You may have to enable it.
It is currently not in the build that you have.
The last option that we've added is an option
that we've added to solve a particular problem
where you have a large forest and you have domains
which the policies for creating those users names
in the various domains, you may have ended up with overlap.
So you may have a J Smith in domain one.
You may have a J Smith in domain two.
And for Windows, this is no problem.
Windows clients have to choose a domain name
before, before they can actually log in.
For Mac though, we actually look at all the
various search nodes that you have configured.
And so the short user name could be kind of confusing.
Which J Smith are we talking about?
The name space option will let you have your short user
names in the format of domain name backslash user name.
And so now it will be pretty obvious when you turn
this on which domain you actually should be able
to see the, oh there appears to be a typo here.
There should be the user name on here as well.
But you will be able to tell from
which domain J Smith is coming.
( Applause )
Finally, we have a new record type in Leopard.
And the reason we have this new record type called
an augmented record, is to solve the problem
of we have these great new services in Leopard.
How many people are excited about
iCal Server and Wiki Server?
I hear there was a really great session on this.
( Applause )
You want to be able to provide these services to your
clients and you may be giving user accounts that are coming
from some directory server that you don't have control over.
Maybe it's your Active Directory server or you
Sun LDAP server, some other server that you,
or directory I heard a plug for that up here.
If you do not have right access to these it can be very
tricky to try to implement services that want to be able
to read information and write information
to these user records.
So a little solution that we came up with is a new
server configuration option called the workgroup
server configuration.
So if you've installed server already,
you probably have seen this screen.
What this will actually do after you choose
this is it will ask you to import users.
And so you'll see all the users in
the node that you have configured.
What are you actually doing when you
import these users though is the question.
Because it'll let you actually
go ahead and edit these users.
You don't have write access to these LDAP
servers or these directory servers.
What it's actually doing is sort of tagging the record from
this other directory service with the extra information
that you want to be able to provide for your services and
then it will return this when something queries for it.
One thing to keep in mind here, is
it can only add extra information.
If there's information that's already coming from
this other directory server, you can't replace it.
It's purely an extra piece of information that you add.
So when you actually import these users, you're not creating
new users records, you're creating augmented records.
So these will be stored in the augment container.
And the records will be stored
as record type colon record name.
So in the case of a user record,
it would be users colon user name.
It does not have to be just for user accounts, but
at the moment that's the primary use for these.
Just to look a little bit closer at how this works,
let's say we have an Active Directory
server and we have your Leopard server.
You've put a few users in your Leopard server,
but you want to be able to provide services
to these users coming from Active Directory.
So you use workgroup mode, you use server settings,
you import some of these users in the Leopard server.
So what does this look like if you
actually try to query directory services?
If you were to use DSCL or workgroup manager or something
where you could directly query a particular search node,
or a particular node in directory services,
if you query the Active Directory node
for a user named Nicole, it'll say here you go.
Here's a Nicole user record.
And in the same way if you directly query the LDAP node
for a user name Steve, you would get the Steve user record.
But even though we've imported a user into
the Leopard server, if you search LDAP node
for a user named Nicole, its going
to say there's no such user.
Because there is no actual user record in the LDAP node.
It's an augment record.
Where the magic takes place is
because for most applications,
most things that use directory
service, they use the search node.
And the search node is smart enough that if you query
for Nicole, it will say oh, there's Nicole over here,
then there's some extra information about this Nicole over
here and some extra information about Nicole over here.
And it will actually give you both pieces of information.
There will be more information on augmented records
and about other new things in Leopard in Open Directory
in the Open Directory session that's Friday morning.
I think it's the first session of the morning.
So if you're interested in this,
I highly recommend that session.
But this should give you something to think about in
terms of how you plan to deploy your Leopard servers
for the services and the directory
servers that you need to use.
( Period of silence )
( Applause )
Leopard's great.
Leopard's got some really amazing stuff in it.
But its not here yet.
And we got a few months before it is.
So we're going to switch tracks a little bit here.
And we're going to talk about trouble shooting what
you've already got in front of you which is Tiger.
And this is all information that will also
help you as you move forward to Leopard.
And we're going to start looking at some
general directory services issues.
And the way we're going to look at
this is we're going to look at three
of the most commonly seen configuration
issues that we see with directory services.
And the first one is issues with your search path.
The symptoms that you might notice is that you set up
your client or your server to talk to a directory node
and if you open up DSCL or you open up workgroup
manager, you see all your records, things look great.
Unless you happen to check the search node.
But then if you actually try and do anything with
these users such as add them to file permissions,
look them up with the ID command, or just
have them try and authenticate, doesn't work.
If you see symptoms like this, first thing to do is
just check your authentication tab in directory access.
Most likely its just defaulted to
automatic and you need to set that.
Now this is all great if you happen to
be sitting right in front of your machine
or you've only got one machine to deal with.
But if you got lots of clients out there and you can't
actually access your server by sitting right in front of it,
you've got to SSH in, it's also pretty handy to know how
to get at this information from the command line.
And you can use DSCL to do this.
This information is in the CSP
Search path of the search node.
If you look at the root of the search node, in
DSCL, there's an attribute called CSP Search path
and it will list what you have in that authentication path.
Now because you might have lots of clients out
there that maybe need a change made to them,
you can also edit this information from the command line.
And so you can use DSCL again to create the CSP search path
value for the search policy and then append any search nodes
that need to be added to that search path.
Also because order is important in terms of what order
directory services looks at your various search nodes,
you can reorder the order that, so this would be
the equivalent of dragging them and dropping them
in that authentication tab by using
the change I option in DSCL.
Only thing to remember here is that
index zero is always your local node.
You can't change that.
So you are essentially working with indexes one and beyond.
All these commands are in the sample notes, so if you're
furiously trying to take these down, relax a little bit.
( Period of silence )
The next issue we're going to look
at is the issue of slow queries.
This can happen with any directory service node that
you might have whether it's a third party LDAP service,
Active Directory plug-in, particularly if you're using
any custom mappings with your Active Directory server.
But the symptoms that you would see are you get
slowed directory service queries on your Mac clients.
And you'll also get slow log ins.
And the more clients that you have doing the log
ins or doing the queries, the slower it gets.
And then you'll also, from the server side
of things, see really high CPU utilization.
And it'll spike or plateau depending on
how you have your clients hitting it.
But you'll definitely notice something on the server side.
The reason for this is probably because you're doing
a lot of queries on attributes that are not indexed.
And for every query, the directory server has
to go and check every single record that it has.
It's usually not real fast, especially
if you have a lot of records.
So the three most important attributes
that you should make sure you have indexed
in whatever directory server you have are whatever
you have mapped to unique ID, whatever you have mapped
to primary group ID, and whatever
you have mapped to map address.
How many people are using the Microsoft
R2 Active Directory schema?
Anybody? A few.
The R2 schema adds the Mac address attribute to the schema.
So whereas before it didn't even exist in the schema,
so you couldn't really search on it, now its there.
So if clients start querying on it and they will,
you will start seeing utilization on your 80 servers
because it has to visit all these records.
It's a simple fix, you just need to index this inactive
directory to check box in your schema manager snap in.
And the last directory service issue we're going to
talk about is problems with mobile accounts.
How many people use mobile accounts?
One of the things that can happen when
you start having problems with log ins
with mobile accounts is people sort of overreact.
They'll start just reimaging the machine,
because that makes the problem go away.
It does, it works, but there may be a simpler solution.
And so this could be mobile accounts using any node.
And the symptom would be you have a user
account that can't log into a particular client.
But that user can log into other clients
and other users can log into that client.
If you have a symptom like this, before
you go and blow the whole thing away,
what you should is check cache account on that client.
Look for the authentication authority
attribute and see what it's set to.
( Period of silence )
The highlighting unfortunately is wrong on this slide.
Imagine it up a line.
But what can happen if you set a user to be disabled,
that will get you the disabled user
value in authentication authority.
Or there's a problem in the process of caching the
account, for security reasons, its set to disabled user
to prevent some unknown bad thing from happening.
So if you look at a cache record, you see
disabled user, just delete the cache record.
It won't affect the home directory.
The user can log in.
It'll recache the record and things will be fine.
It's a lot easier than reimaging the whole machine.
( Period of silence )
So finally we're going to switch over to talking
very specifically about the 80 plug-in.
Which is good because I saw there were an awful
lot of hands in here for Active Directory.
And again we're going to look at three of most common
Active Directory configuration issues that we see.
And the first one relates to binding.
Binding is something that if you're using the
Active Directory plug-in, you've all done it,
and I've actually chosen to ignore a lot of the
failures that there's four steps before step five.
We're not going to talk about those because for the
majority of those, there was a really simple answer.
Fix your DNS.
( Laughter )
And I did, I did a preso last year and I have these
slides with bright red, I, they wouldn't make,
let me make them blink or anything,
but they said fix your DNS.
And interestingly as time has gone
on, people have fixed their DNS.
And honestly, we don't see as many of
those kind of problems come in anymore.
So one of the remaining binding issues that we see is
where the binding sort of seems to stall at step five.
When binding is having a problem, first thing
to do is turn on directory service debugging.
And to do that, you're going to send the USR1 signal to
directory service, use the kill all command to do this.
It's way less fatal than it sounds.
If you wanted to have directory services, just turn on all
the time, you can just create a file dot DS log at start.
Put it in library preferences directory service.
And then every time that directory service is restarted,
it will automatically turn on directory service debugging.
The logging for this goes to library logs directory
service, directory service dot debug dot log.
And if you are getting that failure at step five,
if you were to look at a debug log,
you would see something like this.
See, the AD plug-in trying to change the password for that
computer account that its creating over and over again,
until finally it'll come back and say that it failed.
So why, why would this be happening?
We need a little bit more background information here.
When it is doing this step, it's using the
K password protocol to change the password.
And in Tiger, K password is strictly over UDP.
In Leopard, you'll be able to do it over TCP
and Windows clients can use both TCP and UDP.
But for Tiger, it's strictly UDP and
this is part of what can lead to cases
where you say, well the Windows clients can still bind.
The Windows clients are using different
protocol essentially.
So how do you fix this?
Well, one of the first things to check
is make sure that the port is open.
K password over UDP uses port 464 UDP.
So make sure that there's not a firewall
between your client and your server.
And that that port is open.
This is something that often goes unnoticed because
the Windows clients don't necessarily use that port.
The second thing can be that if you have an admin account
that you're using to do debind to Active Directory
and that user's in a lot of groups, they
accumulate a lot of curb rows pack data.
And that all gets put in the curb rows packet.
Eventually this gets too big for UDP.
And then it fails.
So in that case, just use a different admin account.
Something that's in less groups.
A third reason that this happens, and this actually
happens fairly often is that you have a domain controller
or two somewhere in your Active Directory
domain or forest and it's on multiple networks.
Maybe on your regular network, but it's also on maybe a
private network for your SAN or a private backup network.
And those addresses are not routable
to the rest of the world.
So because it's UDP, we just keep sending.
We don't know if the packet ever got there or not.
We just keep trying and we never hear back from the server.
We don't really have any way of telling if the address that
we got from DNS, if there's two addresses for a server,
we don't know which ones the better address.
So make sure that what you have registered in DNS
for domain controller is only the IP addresses
that are actually accessible to the rest of the world.
So to fix that, well, the part that got grayed out
here, there's a check box in the network settings
for your Windows computers and this
would be on your domain controllers.
There's a check box for whether or not you
should register that connection in DNS.
Disable that on any connections to private networks.
And finally as sort of a catch all, you might just have some
network setting somewhere either on your client on a switch
or router somewhere that might
be interfering with UDP traffic.
So fix it.
Sorry. It's hard to get more specific than that.
The next issue that we're going to talk about which
is one that we hear about a lot which is issues
with authenticating SMB clients to an OS X
servers that's bound to Active Directory.
So this could be an OS X server providing SMB
services to windows clients, Linux clients,
Mac clients, anything that wants to do SMB.
And as a symptom, any Active Directory user that
tries to log in over SMB can't authenticate.
But if you have users that are in for example the
local node or any other directory service node
of the OS X server, they can authenticate just fine to SMB.
And also you're connection back to active
directory appears to be working fine
You can see users and everything else.
And those Active Directory users are able to
authenticate to other services on the same server.
They can use ASP.
They can use FTP, whatever other
services you might be providing.
The first thing you want to check is what kinds of
authentication are actually working and which kinds are not.
And to do that, use the dirt tool,
which stands for directory tool.
You can test two types of authentication here.
Standard authentication, you just need
to provide a user name and password.
It'll tell you the authentication succeed or fail.
You can also force it to specially test
MTL authentication which is the type
of authentication that SMB clients are going to use.
And for that, specify the user name and the password
and to force it to do NTLM, use the dash ANT option.
So if you find that standard authentication
is working fine, NTLM authentication is not,
you need to figure out do you fix
the NTLM authentication part.
And this is actually a fairly complex configuration.
So I'm going to give you a little check
list for what you need to check.
And also by the way, I've put all this in the notes for you.
( Applause )
You're welcome.
First thing, after you bind your server,
run DS config AD dash enable SSO.
That's going to set up all of your services including
SMB to do authentication back to Active Directory.
It's going to set up the service principles for them.
In the case of SMB, it's also going
to edit your SMB dot com file.
Now you should probably still check this by
hand anyway, especially if it's not working.
And so files in FC, SMB dot com.
And there's five options in there that you need to look at.
The first one, make sure that your
workgroup is set to the net bios name
of your Active Directory domain that you're bound to.
The second one, make sure that security is set
to ADS, which stands for Active Directory server.
Some people will say well you could also use domain here.
Don't do that.
What happens if you use the domain setting,
is that periodically someone will go,
try to change the machine trust account password, kind
of forget to tell the Active Directory plug-in about it
and then all the sudden your machine
account password is busted.
And nothing will work on your server.
So don't use domain here.
Make sure you have it set to ADS.
The third option, make sure that net bios name is set
to BOG, or is set to the computer account that you used
when you bound to Active Directory in directory
access or directory utility for Leopard.
This is actually specifying the computer
account that you created when you bound.
If you use a different name here, its going to be looking
for a different computer account that's not going to exist
and that's not going to have a password for.
You want to have use spnego set to yes.
This is going to enable negotiation
of your authentication protocols.
That's a good thing.
And finally you need to have realm set to
be the name of your Active Directory domain,
the Kerberos domain which will match
the name of your Active Directory domain.
And this does need to be in all
caps, Kerberos is case sensitive.
If all this checks out, the next thing to take
a look at is make sure that win bind is running.
Win bind in the process that directory services uses
to proxy authentication back to Active Directory.
If it's not running, authentication is not going to work.
So you should actually have two Win bind processes running.
If you do not see these running, you can start it manually.
You just need to supply the location of
the Win bind configuration file to Win bind
and that is currently located library
preferences directory service Win bind dot com.
That may change, that location may change for Leopard.
That's where it is for Tiger.
You'll get two processes.
You only need to start one.
It will start the other one for you.
If that all checks out, the last piece that you need to
check is to make sure that both the Active Directory plug-in
and samba are using the same password
for your machine account.
If these two get out of synch, it's not going to work.
And since everything seems to be working except Samba,
we can assume that the 80 plug-in has the right password.
So let's figure out how you can
tell whether or not Samba does.
So first we're going to get the machine account
password from the Active Directory plug-in.
To do that, look in the Active Directory P list file
that's in library preferences directory service.
There's a key called AD computer password.
The data field looks just like gibberish.
It's actually a base 64 encoded version of the password.
So use your favorite base 64 decoder to decode that.
I know you all have a favorite base 64 decoder
I personally happen to like using the open SSL
command line tool, but use your favorite one.
Also keep in mind you do need to
be root to access this file.
So now that you know what the Active Directory
you know what the correct password is,
let's look at what samba thinks it is.
To find that out, you need to look at
the contents of the secrets database.
And that's in VAR DB samba secret stack TDB, use the
TDB dump tool to actually dump the contents of that.
You will need to be root to do that.
You should see a key called secrets machine
password and then the name of your domain.
The data field here will actually be the
plain text computer account password.
So hopefully it matches what you got from AD.
But if things aren't working, more than likely it doesn't.
And by the way it will still look kind of like gibberish.
It's just a randomly generated password.
So if they don't match, you need to reset
the password that samba has for this.
And to do that you're going to use the net command.
Use dash F to force it and the option is change secret PW.
It will prompt you for a password.
Use the password, the plain text password after you
base 64 decoded it that you got from the AD plug-in.
( Period of silence )
This is on, this will be all on your Tiger server.
The last AD specific problem that we're going to look
at is problems where you are using Active Directory
for your directory services but you're providing home
directories to some of these users from an OS X server.
How many people have a set up kind of like this?
( Period of silence )
A few, okay.
The configuration that we're talking about
here is you have Active Directory back here.
You've actually configured your user account records
to point to storage that's on your OS X server.
And you're providing file services to Macs,
PCs, any clients that you want to use.
And also important to his configuration is
that you actually have the storage located
on some volume that's not your boot volume.
So it could be external RAID storage,
it can be just a second hard drive.
Could be anything.
That's not on your boot volume.
And what you'll notice as symptoms is that you'll notice
that clients may not be able to
auto mount their home directories.
Or if you go into workgroup manager, you say create home
now or you use the create home dir command line tool,
they don't get, the home directories
don't get created on your OS X server.
Or, you'll notice they get created someplace
other than where you intended them to be.
Also you may notice you're virtual home shares may not work
which are the special share points
that are named for the user.
They can connect to instead of
the share points you've defined.
And in the worse case, you may see that AFP log ins
may just fail all together after authentications.
So the reason behind this has to do with how we translate
the home directory path coming from Active Directory
When you put this in Active Directory, you put
in a regular Windows file path type of strain,
something like backslash backslash server
backslash share backslash user name.
That doesn't really make a whole lot of sense to in that
client, so the AD plug-in translates that into something
that looks like network servers then the fully qualified
name of the server and then the share and the user name.
This is your typical auto mounted home directory path.
That's great.
It looks like it should work.
Except that in reality, if you have these home
directories on a volume that's not your boot volume,
the real file system path looks very similar
except it has volume slash volume name in the path.
So to get around this, because you
can't really tell the AD plug-in whether
or not a given home directory is,
should go through slash volumes or not.
The way to get around this is actually to provide a link
in the file system itself so that it can traverse the root
and get to the share points without
having to go through slash volumes.
So you just create a symbolic link at
the root, use the LN dash S command.
And once you have this, you'll actually be able to get
from network server server name share home directory
without having to use the slash volumes path.
And now the value that the AD plug
in has calculated will be correct.
( Period of silence )
So wrapping up, things that you need
to take with you about Leopard are
that you've got some new utilities to replace the old ones.
We've got a new local node so there'll
be some things there that you may need
to adjust how you trouble shot things in the past.
Your script workflows that you may have existing.
You may need to take a look at
those, make sure that you don't need
to change them, update them to use the new utilities.
You've got some new Active Directory plug-in
configuration options which may affect how you plan
to deploy Leopard with the AD plug-in in the future.
And for providing Leopard services you'll need
to think about what the best configuration is
for your particular directory service set up, whether
or not you use another directory server
or a Leopard Open Directory server.
And whether or not you should be using the
standard work group or advanced type configuration.
Remember that the workgroup configuration is the
one that gives you the magic augmented records.
And finally for troubleshooting, make sure
you check your authentication search paths,
index any attributes that you know
are going to get queried commonly.
If you have problems with either log ins or things
that just aren't working the way they should,
just verify with DSCL that the information
in the records is what you expect it to be.
And finally if you're doing NTML authentication
from an OS X server, take a look at the checklist
of the various different parts of the
configuration that you need to have in place
and make sure that those are all correct.
For more information, we have Mark as a contact here.
And as I said if you log in to the attendees site, you
can find the notes that I've attached to the session.
Hopefully they should be helpful to you.
There's also some other notes that
are about directory services
like the directory services reference and stuff like that.
That you may also find useful.